# IUM Research Publication E-Repository System (IUM-RPER)

ABSTRACT


Keywords: IUM Research Publication E-Repository System (IUM-RPER);  Institutional Repositories (IRs); Rapid Application Development (RAD); Open Access (OA); Open Archives Initiative (OAI); Database (DB).
Institutional Repositories  are digital collections of archives used for keeping the intellectual output of a single or multi-university community. These intellectual output include research papers,  monographs, academic articles, Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETDs), and other digital assets published during an academic year. IRs can have many forms and serve a variety of purposes. IUM-RPER focuses on a digital library that stores the research output of all academic levels offered in the Faculty of Information and Technology like Bachelors, Honor Degree, Masters and Doctorate. The methodology being followed for the development of IUM-RPER system is Rapid Application Development which follows four phases: system specification, user requirements, work-flow and research analysis, leading to greater efficiency, faster development, and effective communication. The three essential characteristics of an IR are: institutionally defined; scholarly (cumulative and perpetual); open and interoperable. Similarly but more narrowly defined IUM -RPER system is an initiative to development an IR that can collect, manage, store, preserve and provide open access to research outputs from the IUM community. This is also an effort to digitalise our institution and reduce the usage of paper leading to a more environmental friendly institution and draw the interest of all those willing to share their support or provide their suggestions, expertise on how to improve IUM-RPER, IUM’s future repository.
Other institutions are invited (and encouraged) to set up their own open archives for author self-archiving. Institutional Repositories and Open access are terms that go along and slowly, but steadily, IRs will continue to be developed and maintained world-wide.
If properly developed an institutional repository advances a surprising number of goals, and addresses an impressive range of needs.
